hello everyone welcome to a another
Friday new product post we have a bunch
of new products we'll talk about here at
Sparkle electronics let's see what we've
got for this week first up we've got two
new LED driver ICS these are bar or
graph driver LEDs that are made
specifically for driving like bar graphs
or multiple LEDs we have them in two
types we have a vu taper and also a
linear taper these are pretty
interesting in that they can control ten
LEDs and instead of doing complicated
code and figuring out how to range
everything you just feed it in analog
signal it takes that analog signal
splits it up into ten different discrete
LEDs drives those LEDs and you get a
really simple way to drive a bar graph
here's a breadboard that we have set up
we have four of the LM three nine one
sixes and as you can see we have a nice
little vu meter of my voice we have this
plugged back into our cameras we're just
using the monitor out from the camera
into this and you can see we have no
op-amp no other driver circuit here we
just have the analog input directly from
the camera into the four ICS we just
have a couple of resistors and some
wiring here but generally speaking all
we're doing is taking the analog input
into the four ICS and then they're
connected directly to the LED bar graphs
and we get this nice little range here
we have to trim pots that are
attenuating the low end as well as the
high end so we can make it a little bit
softer or we can make a clip a little
bit quicker so they're pretty easy to
use and we do have a full QuickStart
guide on how to use these both in a
daisy-chained configuration as well as
individually they also have another mode
which is called the dot mode which would
just display one single led so become
like a peak meter so it would only show
one led at the time it would just show
the current peak this is the vu or
logarithmic scale as you see here for
audio it works best for audio the linear
scale would be a lot different and it
wouldn't be for audio but if you're
doing an application like a temperature
sensor or something like that where you
want to take the analog output directly
from a temperature sensor into one of
these directly into a single bar graph
you might want the linear instead and
you may
want the dot display instead - these are
pretty interesting I definitely
encourage you to check out the whole
QuickStart guide to kind of wrap your
head around how they work in different
applications but if you have an analog
output you want a nice simple visual
display for it
check out the LM three nine one four or
the LM three nine one six next up we've
got a few new products from ACTA
buttocks we've got a couple different
connectors first up is this angle
bracket angle bracket serves a very real
need of wanting to connect the ActiveX
channels at angles it has a 1.5 inch
hole pattern on both of these corners
connects directly to a channel like that
and allows you to do simple right angles
with the channels or any of the other
pieces that you want you also might be
wondering why we have lengths of PVC
pipe here well these next two products
actually allow you to use active otic
swith PVC pipes we have this guy which
is the one-inch PVC clamp hub and then
this is the one-inch PVC clamp mount the
difference between the hub and the mount
is the hub actually has a 1.5 inch hole
pattern here where the clamp is just a
clamp with a one and a half inch hole
pattern down here on the bottom that
mounts like that this is PVC pipe just
from Home Depot these sections are
two-foot and these were like a buck 70
at Home Depot so it's actually really
cheap and it seen them really strong
this is one-inch pipe and the one-inch
is actually the inner diameter of the
pipe so the outside is like 1.3 or
something like that this is made to go
on the end of the pipe like this and
allows you to use PVC pipe as a
structural element for whatever it is
you're building and then because of this
1.5 inch hole pattern you can actually
connect directly to the edge of your
channel like that the other nice thing
that they figured out is the one-inch
PVC actually fits perfectly inside the
channel like that next up is the other
PVC clamp which is just a clamp mount
this fits around the pipe in much the
same way and allows you to connect
directly to the top or the outside of
the channel like that there's a couple
different reasons why you might want to
use this one instead of this one think
of this one base
is like an end clamp where this one is
kind of like a side clamp but PVC is
very inexpensive very strong easy to cut
easy to work with so if you're looking
to a big structure you might want to
check out either of these pieces because
it allows you to adapt PVC in with
reactive otic stuff let's talk about the
difference between flex and all and
muscle wire they're both made of the
same material they're both nitinol which
is an alloy of nickel and titanium that
reacts to heat the difference is in how
they are pre treated and also in the
percentages of nickel and titanium that
are in each by tweaking those
percentages companies like Dyna Loy who
makes both of these alloys can radically
change the properties of these materials
so flex and all is a material that
shrinks when you apply heat to it and
that's all it does you have a length of
it when you apply a current to it to
heat it up or even heat it up with say
butane lighter it will actually shrink
down to a shorter length whereas muscle
wire doesn't come with any pre trained
action when it heats up if you get a
piece of muscle wire and you just heat
it up without doing anything to it it
doesn't move or do anything at all it's
like heating up a piece of jumper wire
so what you need to do to that is to
train it in other words to get it so hot
that it actually remembers that state
that it's in and at that point once
you've shaped it heated it way up and
then cooled it back down it will try to
get back into that shape when it's
heated again so it doesn't shrink
directly the same way flexion all does
it actually deflects to either side like
coil and pulls itself together the
advantage is a muscle wire or that that
deflection causes there to be a lot of
travel when it actually activates
whereas flexion all doesn't have very
much travel because there's nowhere for
the material to really go but it's a lot
stronger it pulls with a lot more force
than muscle wired will start by
connecting the muscle wire what I'm
going to do is just turn on the voltage
source and this wire will heat up and
you'll see this little muscle wire arm
jump up and then I'll turn the power
source off and you'll be able to see
it'll come back down very slowly because
the wire actually has to cool off in
order to stretch back out here I've
connected the flexion all up to our
bench supply and you can see we got a
little bit of deflection there it picked
up the lever and it did it pretty
quickly but it's not it it wasn't as
much action as you got with the must
wire and again it has to cool down
before it'll drop the lever back down
and because this actuates at a slightly
higher temperature it takes it a little
longer to cool down
[Music]